Some years ago, a brother in Mexico
from the rurals,
dressed in very simple country garb,
knocked at the door of a palatial mansion.
A man in a silken bathrobe responded
and asked what he wanted.
The Witness said,
“If a mule should come to your door
with two bags of gold,
would you accept it?”
Annoyed, the householder replied:
“I do not understand what you’re telling me.
I am a famous engineer.”
The Witness then asked him,
“What do you understand about prophecies?”
The man admitted that he did not know
anything about them.
Then the Witness said:
“That is what I want to speak to you about.
“I am that mule that came to your door,
“and the two bags of gold
are these magazines:
The Watchtower  and Awake!”
The man was impressed by the presentation
of this humble Witness
and took the two magazines.
Did that man come into the truth?
We don’t know.
But what we do know
is that our humble brother
gave that man an opportunity
for Jehovah to stir his heart.
In the first century, many prominent Jews
hesitated to follow Jesus
because they feared becoming outcasts.
The account in the Gospel
of John chapter 12 says:
“Many even of the rulers
“actually put faith in him,
“but they would not acknowledge him
because of the Pharisees,
“so that they would not be expelled
from the synagogue.”
However, some overcame social pressure
and took a stand for Jesus.
The Bible tells us of “Joseph of Arimathea,
“a reputable member of the Council,
“who . . . took courage
and went in before Pilate
and asked for the body of Jesus.”
And the book of Acts reports
that “the word of God
continued to spread, . . .
and a large crowd of priests
began to be obedient to the faith.”
An outstanding example of a prominent one
is Saul of Tarsus,
who later became the apostle Paul.
He was a Pharisee
and one who persecuted Jewish Christians.
He admitted this, saying:
“I persecuted this Way to the point of death,
binding and handing over to prisons
both men and women.”
But he changed and became
a zealous preacher
and an apostle.
Similarly today, some who had
a high social position in this world
have become believers.
What helped Saul acquire faith?
Let’s let Paul tell us.
Please turn to Acts chapter 22,
and we’ll read verses 6 through 8.
At Acts 22:6-8,
he says:
“But as I was traveling
“and getting near to Damascus,
about midday,
“suddenly out of heaven a great light
“flashed all around me,
“and I fell to the ground
and heard a voice say to me:
“‘Saul, Saul,
“why are you persecuting me?’
“I answered: ‘Who are you, Lord?’
“And he said to me: ‘I am Jesus the Nazarene,
whom you are persecuting.’”
Yes, it was by Jesus
miraculously appearing to Saul
and identifying himself.
A shocking event!
As a result, Saul completely changed
his values and priorities in life.
Later, he was inspired to write something
that reflects
an entirely different viewpoint.
Let’s read it.
It’s in the book of Philippians chapter 3,
and notice what he says in verses 7 and 8:
“Yet, the things that were gains to me,
“I have considered loss
on account of the Christ.
“What is more, I do indeed also consider
all things to be loss
“on account of the excelling value
“of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord.
“For his sake I have taken
the loss of all things
“and I consider them as a lot of refuse,
that I may gain Christ.”
What was it that moved Paul
to have such a change?
Jehovah used a startling occasion
to stir Paul’s heart.
World events, personal tragedy,
or other changed circumstances,
though not initiated by Jehovah,
may cause a person
prominent in this system of things
to reevaluate his or her life
and listen to the good news.
Such a person may realize
that high social status
does not offer a solution to life’s problems.
In the following video,
note how changing circumstances
can affect a person’s thinking.
During my high-school years,
I would work at a shipyard
as a third-class welder.
It was difficult.
In the summertime,
it was real hot on the water.
And I just said: “Wow!
“If I’m going to have to do this
for 30 or 40 years,
I’ve got to find something better.”
In that period of time, “successful” meant
“a good job, a lot of money, comfort.”
And so I went through college in four years
and got an accounting degree.
Every time I would get a transfer,
I would get promoted.
So I went from Africa to Belgium,
from Belgium to Scotland,
from Scotland back to the U.S.,
and then from the U.S. to Singapore.
And that was really a big jump
—nice cars, a driver,
putting a whole lot of money in the bank.
And every time
I would reach one of these goals,
my wife and I would sit at the table and say:
“Now—now we’re going to be happy.
Now we’re going to finally start
to be able to enjoy this.”
But it was like something fleeting.
It just wasn’t there.
The emptiness was growing bigger.
It was getting—
The hole was getting larger.
We were just perplexed.
We didn’t know where to go
to find any kind of joy or happiness.
Well, my daughter,
she had a baby shop.
It sold baby clothes
and small baby furniture.
She and her husband ran the shop.
So they hired this young girl
to help with the store
and to help with their children.
But when she wasn’t busy
with the store and with the children,
she’d pull open her Bible
and she would be reading her Bible.
So they asked this young girl,
“Do you know anybody
that could study with the two kids?”
She said, “I have the perfect people,
the perfect couple.”
And so they set up a study
the following week
on one night during the week.
And my daughter called me and said:
“Dad, can you come to this Bible study?
“I don’t know these people.
And you just need to be there
to make sure it’s on the up-and-up.”
And so I came to that first Bible study,
and I watched it.
I just sat there amazed!
But when the study was over,
I asked them, I said,
“Would y’all be interested
in studying with me?”
You know, in the world,
you may hit these goals,
but then very quickly after that,
you go way down
and then you stay way down.
The truth brings you constant joy.
There’s nothing like it.
It’s just complete satisfaction,
and you just know now
you’re doing the right thing.
And it’s just changed our whole life now
and our whole attitude.
We are just so very content and happy.
Dear brothers, we are being encouraged
to give a bold witness to prominent ones.
It’s natural that at times we may feel
intimidated by prominent ones
and hesitate to give a witness,
but let’s be determined to imitate Jesus.
In what way?
Notice what Isaiah 11:3 says about him:
“And he will find delight
in the fear of Jehovah.
“He will not judge
by what appears to his eyes,
nor reprove simply according
to what his ears hear.”
Did you notice that?
So like Jesus,
who does not judge
by what appears to his eyes,
we do not want to predetermine
a person’s response
by their outward appearance,
their large homes,
their prominence, or their position.
We also want to imitate the apostle Paul
in his attitude after he became a Christian.
Notice what he says
in the book of Romans chapter 1.
We’re going to key in to verse 16.
That’s Romans 1:16.
First, we’ll read
the first part of that verse.
It says:
“For I am not ashamed of the good news.”
Now, under inspiration, he then comments
on the effectiveness
of preaching the good news
when he says:
“It [that is, the good news]
“is, in fact, God’s power for salvation
“to everyone having faith,
to the Jew first and also to the Greek.”
So let’s be determined
to preach boldly to all,
giving Jehovah the opportunity
to stir the hearts of those who listen.
Brother Anthony Morris of the Governing Body
will now consider the final talk
of this symposium,
“Remember
—Faithless People Can Acquire Faith!
—Nonreligious People.”